Good morning, everybody.
Welcome to day two of Apple's 2006
Worldwide Developer Conference.
I'm Chris Espinosa.
I'm the head of the user experience group
in the Xcode development tools team,
and I'm here to welcome you to Xcode,
Apple's IDE.
Our objective this morning is to orient
you to the Xcode suite of tools to
highlight some of the similarities
and differences between Xcode and other
tools you may be experienced with,
and to answer some of the common
questions you're going to encounter
as first-time users of Xcode.
If you are not a
first-time user of Xcode,
now would be an excellent
time to deplane.
If you are experienced with using Xcode,
I suggest going to the
Cocoa session in the next room,
or please, please, please,
downstairs to How to
File a Good Bug Report.
That will help us much more
than you're sitting in here
learning the rudiments of Xcode.
So if you're still with me,
that means that you probably have not
used the Xcode tools extensively before.
You may not be familiar
with the Xcode tools at all.
You may be a newcomer to
the Mac OS X development
environment altogether.
So I want to do a little show of hands.
Hands of where you're coming from.
Which of these do you recognize?
How many people are more
experienced in the Visual Studio,
Visual C++ development environment?
Okay, good number.
The mug in the middle is
the Emacs cheat sheet.
How many of you are primarily Emacs
terminal make file developers?
Great, that's where I figured it.
And how many people have experience in
the Eclipse development environment?
Good, good mix.
How many are Code Warrior refugees?
Figured.
So many of you, it looks like,
from either Visual Studio or from Emacs
or Code Warrior know what an IDE is
and what the benefits of having an
integrated development environment are.
If you've only used the GNU tools
or command line tools to develop,
an IDE may seem new to you.
What we give you with the Xcode IDE is
actually the best of both worlds.
It's the graphic user interface that
you're familiar with as a user plus
the full power of the back end tools
that you get using the command line.
The IDE integrates,
and that's what the I in IDE is.
It integrates a lot of
different functions,
not just the editing and building.
But it's editing, building, debugging,
source code management, visual modeling,
documentation reference.
A lot of things are packed
into one application,
and there are bridges to other
applications that allow you to do four.
For example, interface design as well.
And Apple's IDE is different in
that it guides you specifically to
developing Mac OS X applications.
While in many respects
it's a generic build,
link, debug development environment,
there are a lot of things all over
Xcode which guide you to developing
Mac OS X specific applications.
The first questions you probably
have if you're approaching the
Mac OS X platform as a developer is,
well, where are my tools?
Well, you know,
if you're a Microsoft developer,
you go and buy Visual Studio.
If you are an Eclipse developer,
you download Eclipse.
If you're a Mac OS X developer,
what do you do?
Well, the good news is, out of the box,
with every single Macintosh we've
ever sold with Mac OS X on it,
and with every copy
of Mac OS X at retail,
the developer tools are included.
With every copy, there's nothing to buy,
there's nothing to download.
You boot up your machine,
or you put in your installation disk,
and there is a disk image of the
developer tools right there on the
hard disk or right there on the DVD.
You double-click that disk image,
and you get the installer
for the developer tools.
If you want to upgrade,
you go to Apple Developer Connection,
ADC,
and you can download the latest tools.
The current tools up there is Xcode 2.3.
We just introduced 2.4 yesterday.
It's not up on the website yet,
but it can be downloaded from
the servers here at the show.
We're going to be using Xcode
2.3 for the demonstration today.
When you install developer tools,
something subtle happens to the
top level of your hard disk.
You get a folder called developer.
Most of the developer tools are there.
And if you want to start with the
Xcode IDE or any of the other tools,
you just double click that.
Some of the applications
are at the top level.
Others are buried within it.
But most of the things that you want
to use as a developer will be found
inside the top level developer folder
on your hard disk after installation.
But there's a lot that
goes other places too.
Let's take a look.
In the developer folder,
you see a top-level about document,
a PDF that you can read.
The reference library,
which is all of the documentation,
will show you how to get to it.
The applications,
which is where Xcode is.
Then there's documentation
and a lot of examples,
a ton of sample code in examples,
some headers, some bundles.
Notice the SDKs folder here.
That's the software
development kits for Mac OS X.
That is where the headers and
link libraries are that you'll be
using in the projects you create.
We'll talk a little bit
more about those later.
But there's more in other places.
If you're a traditional Unix developer,
you understand that slash user is where
most of your developer stuff goes.
When you install Mac OS X,
a large number of Unix utilities
and tools are included,
but not all of the development utilities.
When you install Xcode tools,
all of the development
utilities are added in,
including the Unix header
files in user include,
the link libraries and
runtime libraries in user lib,
and all of the tools,
including the compilers in user bin.
These are the typical places they are in
a Unix or Linux development environment,
and you'll find them there.
The third place in the Mac OS X idiom
is in the library folder,
and the library folder is
your machine configuration.
It's where you put
machine-specific stuff,
and when you install the Xcode tools,
your machine-specific plugins and
configuration go in slash library.
They're buried in a folder
called application support slash
apple slash developer tools,
and there are a bunch of templates,
a bunch of plugins,
a bunch of configuration scripts.
When you get to be an
advanced Xcode user,
you will find your
configuration information,
you will find your customization
goes on in that folder.
So let's take a quick
tour of the Xcode IDE.
Xcode has three different layouts,
and you pick one in the preferences.
And the different layouts are designed
for different development styles and for,
in many respects,
for different origins of
where you might come from.
The default layout gives you the product,
the project view,
Laser.
The project view on the left,
and then a detail view on the right,
and then an editor window slides
up to show your edit text.
It gives you most of the
tools you want in one window,
but you will often open other
windows for specific tasks
such as editing and debugging.
There's a condensed layout,
which is more familiar to those
of you who use Code Warrior,
where your project is in one window,
and then editing, building,
and debugging, and finding all happen
in separate windows.
But if you come from a more
all-in-one environment,
where you expect everything to
be in one window all the time,
there's the all-in-one layout,
where your project and your detail and
your editor are all in the same window,
and then you switch pages with
the page button up here to go to
debugging or to... ...to building.
Pick the layout you want.
We will be using the
default layout in the demo,
but most of the things that we're showing
today work equally well in all layouts.
So when you start putting
together a project in Xcode,
you do it in what's called
the groups and files view.
This is where your headers
and source files go,
and you can group them together in these
folder-like groups to organize them.
There are really two things here.
One is the project membership up here,
and two is a bunch of
smart groups down there.
The smart groups are much
like smart groups in iTunes or
iMovie or another i application.
They give you a quick reference
to certain kinds of things.
For example,
a smart group at the bottom called
project symbols shows you a list
of all of the classes and methods
and macros defined in your program.
It's essentially a flattened
version of the project index.
It's very useful to use these
smart groups for navigation.
You'll spend most of
your time in the editor.
Whether the editor is in a separate
window or whether it's embedded in
your default or all-in-one view,
the editor works the same.
It's a source code editor.
It does automatic indentation.
It does syntax coloring.
You'll see more advanced features
of the Leopard Xcode editor
in this afternoon's session.
We're just going to show you the basic
one that's currently in 2.3 and 2.4.
If you're doing an application
with a graphic user interface,
you'll be using Interface Builder.
Most of your projects will come with
default interface files called nib files.
You double-click those,
and you launch a separate
application called Interface Builder.
And you use it to design your project.
You design your graphic user interface
and then wire it up to your source code.
If you're doing
object-oriented programming,
which most of you probably are,
you'll want a class browser.
Under the Windows menu,
there is a Tools item,
and under the Tools item are most
of the windows you're about to see.
The class browser is one of them.
You can also put a toolbar tool in to
pop up a class browser at any time,
and it lets you inspect classes
and see what the members are and go
straight to the header file for any
particular class in your application.
You can also look at the classes
in your application in a graphic
way using the class modeling
tools from the Design menu.
There's plenty of documentation.
From the Help menu, there is Xcode Help,
which takes you directly
to the Xcode user guide,
and a general documentation item,
which takes you to all of
Apple's documentation on
the Macintosh product line,
from hardware on up.
And it's 15 years worth of documentation.
It's a huge amount.
The installation of the documentation
is as large as the installation
is the developer tools themselves.
It's a huge amount of information,
so huge that some of it is even
indexed on your local disk,
but it goes to the network
to get the actual content.
This way you get the freshest content,
and we can provide you all the
information that you really need.
When you've got your source code
written and you want to build it,
there's a build results window that
gives you the controls for building
your application and shows you
the build steps and will show you
errors and warnings as they occur.
You select an error and warning and
it brings it up in the source code.
This is called the build results window.
A crucial part of the
build results window,
especially if you're coming from a
makefile terminal-like environment,
is what's called the build transcript.
If you look right here,
there's a little widget, tiny, obscure,
mysterious, that if you click it,
it discloses the secret
underlife of Xcode.
This is the actual transcript of
the build commands being issued to
the shell to execute the compiler,
linker, and other commands that
build your product.
If you open that all the way,
you will see hundreds of
K of terminal commands,
and you can look at them
and see them step by step.
If you select a build
step in the top pane,
it will select the corresponding build
steps in the transcript so you can see
exactly what's going on with your build.
And finally, debugging.
When you launch your
program in the debugger,
you can set breakpoints, step through it,
step into, step over.
You see the stack trace.
You can select different threads.
You can inspect the value of variables.
Much of this is familiar to
you for anybody who's used
an IDE with a debugger in it.
When your application is up and running
and you've made all the changes you want,
you may want to commit it to a
source code management repository.
Source code management is
integrated into the Xcode editor.
When you enable your project
for source code management,
you get an extra column in your detail
view that shows the status of any file.
M for modified, C for conflict,
for example.
And you can use the SCM menu
in Xcode to commit or check
out or inspect differences
between two versions of a file.
This is an integrated
development environment.
All of these tools are
in one application.
So let's talk about your workflow,
what you do as a user of Xcode.
You edit your code, you build it,
you get errors and warnings,
you build it, it succeeds.
You debug it, you step through,
you inspect what your program is doing,
you get it working,
then you deliver it to customers.
We're going to walk you through
that workflow with Xcode.
Rick Ballard is going to come
up to talk you through it,
Chris Hanson is going to
be on mouse and keyboards,
and I hope you enjoy the demo.
Thank you.
I'm Rick Ballard.
This is Chris Hanson.
We're going to step you through some
demonstrations of common tasks in Xcode.
We're going to start out with a
demo of creating a new project,
probably the first thing
you'll do in Xcode.
Let's go ahead and get Xcode going.
And we're going to go
up to the file menu.
I don't think we're showing
the correct machine.
If we could switch, please.
One moment, please.
Well, what we're about to show you
is we're going to bring up
and create a new project.
Xcode gives you a bunch of assistants,
which let you start with
different templates for
different types of projects.
Here we go.
All right.
So you can see here we have
the assistant window up.
You get that by going to the file
menu and selecting new project.
And here we have a bunch of
different categorized types of
projects that we can create.
Let's go down to the
command line tool category,
and we're going to start
out with a standard tool.
That's just a simple
C command line application.
We click the next button.
Here, Xcode lets us name our project and
decide where we want to put it.
Unlike some other IDEs, in Xcode,
your projects can live wherever you want.
And generally,
you may put all your source
files in a project directory,
but you can locate
things wherever you want,
really.
So let's go ahead and click Finish.
This will cause Xcode to
create our project for us.
And you see the project window,
which is where you're going to
spend most of your time in Xcode.
So you see,
as Chris Espinosa showed you earlier,
there's a Groups and
Files pane on the left.
That top icon that has
the name of the project,
"Hello World," and a little project icon,
that's the root group.
That icon represents the project itself,
and it contains everything
in the hierarchy,
source files,
resource files in the project.
Next to the Groups and Files pane,
you can see the Detail pane.
And you see there are a
few files listed there.
Well,
the Detail pane will show you everything
in the hierarchy under what you have
selected in the Groups and Files pane.
So since we have the
project icon selected,
you can see all the file
references in the project.
If we click on the products group,
we can filter down and see just the
file references in the products group.
You see there's one reference there.
It's got the name of the project,
and it's red.
If we click on the products group,
we can filter down and see just the
file references in the products group.
You see there's one reference there.
It's got the name of the project,
and it's red.
If we click on the products group,
we can filter down and see just the
file references in the products group.
You see there's one reference there.
It's got the name of the project,
and it's red.
If we click on the products group,
we can filter down and see just the
file references in the products group.
You see there's one reference there.
It's got the name of the project,
and it's red.
after it's finished.
So we're gonna turn that on.
And now we can go ahead and click the
little build hammer in the toolbar,
and it'll build our project.
You can see the steps
that it's done there,
and our build has succeeded.
Now,
if we want to see a little more detail,
you can click that little text widget,
one of those little boxes,
and we'll see the actual commands
that Xcode has sent to GCC,
which is our C compiler.
We go ahead and click the Run button.
It'll go ahead and run our project,
and it prints Hello World.
No big surprise.
Let's go back to our slides.
So you may have noticed that there
was a little bull's eye icon in the
Groups and Files pane called Targets.
What's a target,
and what's the difference between
your projects and your targets?
Well,
a project contains references to all
the files related to your deliverable.
So my deliverable might be an
application that I'm linking
against a couple frameworks.
I have to build my frameworks.
I have to build my application.
We generally recommend that
you put all the source files,
if your frameworks are really
just for that one application,
in one project.
You have all the files
there that you can refer to,
and your project can contain
other ancillary files that you're
not necessarily going to compile,
like notes.
It'll contain your resource files,
everything related to your project.
Now, the target is what actually
processes your source files.
It compiles them.
It'll take your resource files and
copy them to the correct place.
So your target just contains
the files that it processes,
and it produces one build product.
So I'd have a target for a framework,
a different target for my application.
Every different build
product has its own target,
and the target just contains,
references to the files
which are relevant,
which it will process for that target.
Your project also contains general
settings that you're going to
use for all of your development,
for everything for this deliverable.
A target contains the settings that
are specific to that one target.
And the project contains all
the targets that you're going
to use with that project.
Likewise,
a target contains a series of build
phases which process your files.
If this sounds a little confusing,
let's go to a demo and
show you what I mean.
So we're going to open up our
temperature converter project.
This is an application which will convert
from Fahrenheit to Celsius for us,
but we need an actual converter
in a framework that it will
link against to provide it with
the actual conversion routine.
You see if we disclose that,
we've disclosed that targets group,
you can see there's one target.
Represented by the
little application icon,
that represents the application
we have in our project.
What we're going to want to do
here is add a second target,
which will build our framework.
So this project will
have two targets in it.
It's also possible to put each of your
targets in a separate project and use
cross-project references between them.
If all your targets are
related to one deliverable,
we recommend you put
them in the same project.
So let's go ahead and add a new target.
We're going to go up to the project menu,
and we're going to say new target.
And we'll get an assistant that's
very similar to what we had earlier
with the new project assistant.
Here we can select what type
of target we're going to build.
Unlike the project assistants,
these don't come with template
files to get you started,
but they do come,
it does create a target with
the right settings initially
for the type of product that
that target is going to build.
Here we're going to
create a Cocoa framework.
So let's select the Cocoa framework.
And we'll go ahead and click finish.
We'll name our target first.
This is going to be the
converter framework,
so we name it converter.
You see there's a pop-up which
will let you choose which
project to add this target to,
but we only have one open project.
Let's go ahead and finish.
And we're going to close the
info panel that's open for us.
And you can see it's
added a second target.
This target has a different icon
because it's of a different type.
This is not an application target.
It's a framework target.
Let's go ahead and finish.
And we're going to close the
info panel that's open for us.
And you can see it's
added a second target.
This target has a different icon
because it's of a different type.
Those phases process the
files that the target needs to
process to build its product.
[Transcript missing]
There's also the compile sources phase.
That's pretty self-explanatory.
If we click on that,
we can see the source files that we
will compile when we build this target.
Finally, this target has a link
binaries with libraries phase.
You can see we have one framework,
the Cocoa framework,
that it's going to link against
when we build this target.
Well, we need to link this application
target against our converter framework.
And we need to make sure that our
converter framework actually builds some
source files that we're going to use.
So let's start out by adding the
source files that we need for our
converter target to the project.
We're going to go to the finder.
And we have a couple source files
here already that we've written.
You remember how I said the project
contains all the files that are
related to your deliverable for
all the targets in the project?
We can just add these files to
the same classes group that the
other target source files are in.
It'll give us a couple options,
none of which we need
to change right now,
but there is one we do
need to pay attention to,
which is the target membership.
We want the converter target
to process these files,
and we don't want our application
target to process these files.
So we'll make sure just
the converter is checked.
Go ahead and finish.
And it adds these files
to the project for us.
Chris is going to quickly fix up
the header role for our header,
and you can learn more about what that
means in one of our later sessions.
Now we need to make sure that we
link against this converter framework
when we build our application.
Well, if you click on the Products group,
you'll see that it's added the
build product that this converter
target is going to build,
the converter.framework.
We can just take that and drag it
into the link binaries with libraries
build phase of our application target,
and that will tell our application to
link against the built converter dot
framework when you build the application.
But we haven't actually
built that framework yet.
If I was to hit Build right now, well,
there are two different targets.
Which one is it going to build?
There's the notion of an active target.
If you go to the project menu,
you'll see set active target,
and we can choose which
target is currently active.
The active target is the target that
will be built when you click build.
We're trying to build
our application here,
so let's leave the application
as the active target.
But we also want to build our framework
when we build our application.
And in fact,
if we ever change the framework and
go over to build the application,
we want to make sure that
the latest version of the
framework is built along with it.
So let's set up a target dependency.
That'll make the framework target
automatically build whenever we
build our application target.
To do that, we're going to open an info
panel on the application target.
You can do that by selecting
the application target in
the Groups and Files pane,
and clicking on the Info
button in the toolbar,
or the keyboard shortcut is Command-I.
And it'll open up a panel
with several tabs here.
Here we want to go to the General tab.
And you see that there's a
large box for dependencies,
with a plus and minus
button at the bottom.
Let's click the plus button,
and it'll give us a list of all the
available targets that we could make
this application target depend on.
We'll choose the converter target.
Go ahead and create that dependency.
We can close our info panel.
And let's see what happens when we build.
Let's open up the build results window.
And let's go ahead and click build.
And you can see it builds--
if we scroll up a little bit,
you can see it builds the
converter framework first,
and then it builds our
application target.
Let's try and run it
and see if it worked.
Here's our converter.
It's supposed to be 69 degrees
in San Francisco today,
so we can type that in,
and we can see what that is in Celsius.
So there's a two-target
project with a dependency.
One's linking against the other,
but we have the source files for
both targets in the same project.
Let's go back to our slides.
There's going to be time
for questions at the end.
We'll get to that, though.
So there's some settings which
control how your targets are
built when you click build.
Things like,
what do I want to name the built product?
Do I want to generate debug symbols?
What architectures do
I want to build for?
These are called build settings.
And since you generally have different
sets of build settings that you
want to use at different times,
For example,
when I'm building day to day,
I may just want to build for whatever
architecture I'm currently on.
So I can quickly edit, build, debug,
edit, build, debug.
But then when I release,
I need to make sure that
I'm building universal.
So I need different settings
for releasing my project
and for building day to day.
These sets of build settings that we
give you are called build configurations.
Each build setting in
a build configuration,
these build settings are kind of akin
to makefile variables in a makefile.
Each build setting has a
makefile variable-like name,
all caps with underscores
instead of spaces,
and also a more verbose,
readable name that tells you
what the setting actually is.
And each project has a set of build
configurations with these settings.
Whereas where each configuration will
set the settings for the same project,
same source files you're going to build,
but each configuration will let
you build it in a different way.
Let's go to our demo,
and I'll show you what I mean.
We're going to go ahead and
open up our next demo project.
Here we go.
And here,
I told you before that the root group,
that project icon with the name of the
project and the groups and files tree,
that that represented the project.
Well, in fact,
if we open an info panel on that,
it'll give us the
settings for the project.
One of those tabs is
the Configurations tab.
We can go ahead and click
on the Configurations tab.
And you can see the different build
configurations we have in this project.
Debug, release.
Pretty simple.
These are the configurations you'll get
by default when you create a new project.
But you can add new ones by
duplicating an existing configuration.
You can remove them, and so forth.
Let's go over to the Build Settings tab.
So each of those configurations
has a set of build settings.
You can see the human readable
friendly name on the left,
and you can see the value on the right.
And you notice some of these are bold,
some of them aren't bold.
What's that mean?
Well, the ones that aren't bold,
they have the base value
that you get if you haven't
explicitly set your own value.
The ones that are bold,
those settings have been
customized in the project.
A new value has been set there
that's different than the base value.
We can go up to the collections pop-up,
and there's a customized settings option.
And that'll show you all the settings
that we have customized in this project.
And when you create a new project,
it'll come with some customized settings.
So this is a quick way to find
the settings that you've changed.
Now, say in this application, we want to,
when we build day-to-day
for debugging purposes,
have some debugging log statement.
But when we release it to our customers,
we don't want that debugging
information logged.
It's a pretty common thing to do, right?
So one way people do that often is
by using a preprocessor directive
to turn on and off debug logging.
If we go back to our project window and
open up our source file and scroll down,
you can see that we have a
preprocessor directive that makes the
debugging log statement conditional
on whether or not the debug
preprocessor macro has been defined.
So how do we control whether
that macro is defined?
We want it defined when we're debugging,
not defined when we're releasing.
So let's use the debug and
release configurations.
Let's go ahead and
close this source file,
go back and open an info
panel on the project.
And let's show all our settings again.
Well,
we want to set a preprocessor macro.
What's the easiest way to
figure out how to do that?
There's a little filter
box in the info panel here.
And if we just try
typing in preprocessor,
it'll filter down the
available build settings.
We can find what we want.
Well, look there near the bottom.
It says preprocessor macros.
If we click on that,
you notice in the bottom,
it describes our build setting for us.
The end of the description,
there's also that all caps
with underscores name.
That's the make file variable
like name of this build setting.
Let's go ahead and edit
that build setting.
Let's actually close that quickly.
Let's take a look at-- you can see
there's a little pop-up that shows
which configuration we're editing.
We're currently editing
the debug configuration.
It's important to know
which one we're looking at.
Let's go ahead and edit that again.
And let's set debug equals
1 as a preprocessor macro
for the debug configuration.
And you can see that that's
turned bold if we deselect it.
So you can see, indicating that we've
customized that setting.
If we select the release configuration,
you'll see it turns unbold
and no longer has a value,
because we haven't set one
for that configuration.
Now, you remember I told you around
the last demo that the project
contains the settings that are
general for all your development,
but the targets contain the settings
specific to one build product?
There are settings at the target level,
too.
And if we click on our project
window and click on our target,
open an info panel,
you can see it's a parallel
set of build settings.
It's the same list of build settings.
Anything you've set at the
project level is going to be
inherited at the target level.
This is something that confuses
a lot of people new to Xcode.
So it's something
I really want to stress.
It's a good takeaway.
When you're trying to set a setting to
control something about your product,
if you set it at the project level,
all your targets in your
project will inherit that value.
If you set it at the target level,
only that one target
will use the setting.
And anything set at the target
level overrides the value
set at the project level.
So when you go to set some setting,
when you're working with Xcode,
you maybe double-click on that project
and set the setting and hit build,
and it doesn't do what you expect.
Make sure to check the target and see
if you've overridden that build setting.
Now here, we set that preprocessor macros
setting at the project level.
What if we filter on the target
for preprocessor again and
see what value it has now?
You can see we're looking
at the debug configuration,
and there it says debug equals one.
But it's not bold.
It's because we customized
it at the project level,
and it's inheriting it
at the target level.
If we were to set a value
at the target level,
it would be bold there.
It would no longer inherit.
And if we select the release
configuration for the target,
you can see that setting
is no longer there.
Let's close both info panels,
and let's try building and running.
[Transcript missing]
You can see we printed
out our debug statement.
Pretty simple.
One other thing you may want to
be especially aware of-- let's
open up our project info panel.
When you're building an Xcode,
you really want to make sure
that you're going to be building
universal when you release.
So that architecture setting
happens to be the top setting
when you open up an info panel.
That's how you're going
to build Universal.
If we double click on
this setting to edit it,
we'll get a couple check boxes.
Let's go ahead and click,
make sure both are checked.
So we're going to turn
on the Intel check box.
Click OK.
This will make us build
for both architectures,
so we build Universal.
Let's go back to our slides.
So you've been editing for a while,
debugging.
You think you've got your project
ready to deliver to your customers.
But there are a whole bunch of symbols
here you may need to worry about.
You may want to make sure
that your product is ready
to give to your customers.
That's where stripping comes in.
There are three types of stripping,
conceptually,
that you'll want to worry about.
First, there's dead code stripping.
If you have any code in your application
that never actually gets called,
you don't actually want that in the
product you ship to your customers,
because it'll make the
resulting binary larger,
reduce performance.
So you want to strip
out all that dead code.
Then you may have debug symbols
that you were generating,
and you don't want to ship
those to your customers.
Those will also make
your binary a lot larger,
and they may reveal things about your
product that you don't want to reveal.
So you want to strip out debug symbols.
And finally, the third type,
privacy stripping.
Well, you may not want your customers to
reverse engineer your application.
So you may want to strip out all
symbols that don't actually need
to be in the resulting binary.
Anything that's not a public entry
point to a framework of yours,
or almost anything in an application,
that's called privacy stripping.
Unfortunately, this can be sort of
confusing to set up in Xcode.
So we're going to step through
and show you all the different
settings that you're going to
need to manage to correctly set
up stripping for your product.
So let's go back to the demo.
And we've got a project here.
Let's open up an info
panel on the project.
There are a myriad of settings that
you're going to have to deal with here.
If we type in "strip"
into the filter box,
we'll find a whole bunch
of them to start out with.
So first you'll see at the top
it says "Dead Code Stripping."
Well, we want to turn that on.
And we're currently editing
our release configuration.
You can see from that pop-up.
So let's go ahead and turn that on.
Those of you coming from Code Warrior may
be used to dead code stripping,
stripping out your dead code before
any linker errors could have occurred.
Well, in Xcode,
it will link and then dead code strip.
So if you have any linker errors that
would be caused by your dead code,
you need to fix those
or remove that code,
or it won't compile, or it won't link,
rather.
To do our dead code stripping,
we need to make sure that we build
with a bunch of debug symbols,
because the linker needs those debug
symbols to strip out the dead code.
So let's filter on debug,
and we'll see the settings
for debug settings.
First of all, we need to make sure
generate debug symbols is on.
But we also need to make sure that the
level of debug symbols is set correctly
to let dead code stripping work.
It needs full debug symbols.
All symbols are dash G full.
So we're going to set that.
That's all the settings we needed to
set to make dead code stripping work.
If we were to build in link,
it would strip out dead code now.
But we just turned on debug symbols,
and we turned on all the debug symbols.
We don't want to ship that in a release,
so how do we strip the
debug symbols back out?
Well, let's type strip back
into our filter box again.
And you can see there's a
strip link product setting.
It's currently on.
That'll strip things
back out of the product,
like debug symbols,
if deployment post-processing is on.
Deployment post-processing means
you want to go ahead and strip
your product and install it.
Well,
there's a separate setting for that,
but do all these things
that are conditional on
deployment post-processing.
So in your release,
you probably want to have that on.
We also want to check the strip style.
Strip style will tell it what
we want to strip out when
we strip the linked product.
Well, do we just want to
strip out debug symbols?
No,
we probably want to do privacy stripping,
too.
We want to strip out all those entry
points and symbols that we don't need
to ship in our finished application.
So let's make sure that the strip
style is set to all symbols.
That's what it's set to by default.
Or maybe,
maybe we're shipping a framework
and we need some public symbols,
or even an application
that has a plugin API,
but we don't want all our symbols public.
Well, then we can choose non-global
symbols from the strip style.
And that'll strip out
anything that's not global.
How do we control that?
Well, there are a couple different ways.
First of all,
there's an inline compiler directive
you can use in writing your code.
Second--
There's a set of, or two settings,
an exports file setting,
which we can see if we type
export into the filter box,
and an unexported symbols file setting.
We can set these build settings to an
exported symbols file or an unexported
symbols file that respectively specify
the symbols we wish to export and or
the symbols we don't want to export.
Finally, if we type in private
into that filter box,
there's a setting,
use private extern by default,
or symbols hidden by
default is the actual name.
If we turn that on, it'll make everything
non-global by default.
So that's a whole bunch of build
settings I've just thrown at you.
Don't expect you to remember that.
What you really need to take
away is three types of stripping.
Dead code stripping,
stripping debug symbols,
stripping privacy stripping,
and how to find those settings.
You can type in strip
into the filter box,
make sure stripping is on,
deployment post-processing,
type in debug,
make sure your debug symbols
are being generated properly,
export to set your exports file,
and private if you want to turn
on private extern by default.
Let's go back to our slides.
and Chris Espinosa is now
going to take you out with some
tips on better Xcode usage.
[Transcript missing]
Second thing is that a lot of the
Unix files are hidden from end users.
Well,
how do you get to them if you want to add
a header file or a library from /usr/lib?
Well, you just do the open window,
and then you either type
Command-Shift-G or just the slash key,
and the standard navigation
panel will let you get directly
to that folder by path name.
It's a universal way to get to hidden
folders that we want to hide the
Unix things from the Mac OS X users,
but make them available to the developer.
So that's a very common trick to use,
is just open,
type slash or Command-Shift-G,
type in the path,
and you can get directly to that
header file or that library to include.
This one comes up about every
month on the Xcode users list.
When you create a new file
using the new file template,
it comes up with a placeholder
for your organization name.
You set that placeholder
with a hidden preference.
You set it from the terminal
with defaults right.
This is one of the more poorly
documented parts of Xcode.
There's one simple line you cut
and paste into your terminal.
You do it once and it works forever.
But this is something you need to
go to Google or go to the expert
preferences document to put in.
You do this once and every new file
you create will have your organization
name in it instead of my company name
with double underscores around it.
This is one that people keep asking us,
why don't you put this into Xcode?
And we say, well, it's here in Xcode.
It's called Find Sets.
You go to the Project Find,
you click the Options button,
there's a checkbox for
search in files and folders,
and you can add any folder,
add any path to that,
and then you can either make a default
find set or a custom find set search in
arbitrary files and folders on your disk.
So if you want to search user include,
if you want to search the boost sources,
if you want to search
your own set of sources,
you can just add them to this list,
and they'll be searched.
Similarly, in Xcode Preferences,
there's something to add your own
list of source files for the open
quickly mechanism if you want
open quickly to navigate to things
in your sources in other places.
Finally,
there is a favorites bar in Xcode.
We don't have tabbed editing
or tabbed navigation,
but we do have a
favorites bar you can add,
and you can put selected source files,
header files, documentation,
even files from outside the project,
like your to-do list of things
you want to do frequently,
and you can just drag and drop
them into that favorites bar and
then navigate to them quickly.
It's a very easy way to jump around
to places that you have to go to
constantly without having to just have
a finder window open on your desktop.
So I want to give you a summary
of what we've talked about today.
We've talked about what an IDE does
and why integration is good in
your development environment.
We've talked a little bit about
some differences between the
Xcode IDE and the IDEs you may
be coming from or familiar with.
We've taken you on a quick
tour through creating projects,
editing, and building.
We didn't touch debugging,
but there are a couple of debugging
sessions later on in the week
that I highly recommend you go to.
We've given you some quick tips
and tricks for working in Xcode.